in my field just as a scientist
we view politics as a barrier
between where we are and where
we want to go but of course in
Washington politics is the
currency of interaction and so
how do you as a professional
politician balance what is
objectively true about the world
with what people want to be true
about the world
yeah there's still a surprising
number of people who don't
believe in evolution right and
the campaign against evolution
has been politically amazingly
successful and I think I'm a
good red-blooded american and i
will say i don't mind that you
don't believe in evolution
you just shouldn't be on a
science committee making
decisions that affect the entire
country are rewriting our
textbooks against we're 90
something percent of people are
right the same thing is true
with climate change
it's inconvenient for some
people so they just this about
we may be those of us who
believe in it may be wrong about
how quickly adverse consequences
would be manifest but I think
with regard to science we at
least have to get those people
who have no interest in it to
adopt what is now my mode of
thinking the grandparent test
that is you name me one other
risk-related decision where if
ninety-five percent of the
experts were here and one to
five percent of the experts were
there any grandparents would
stake his or her grandchild
future on the five percent how
about this pose a guy wrote one
article and one journalist said
you know I've been thinking
about these child restraint
seats and I think you know
there's a one-in-a-million
chance a kid could snap his neck
so i recommend just going to get
in the backseat and let them
roll around and ninety-nine
percent reveals that oh my god
you can't do that these are
working look at the help of the
fatalities going to name me one
grandparent who choose the one
percent not one but that's what
we do with climate change
I mean my theory is nothing
would create more new jobs and
do it
surprise and changing the way we
produce and consume energy and
other resources and if you can
do it in a way that's good for
the economy it's probably
something you ought to do anyway
scientists need to say look
we're not being dogmatic if you
can show us we're wrong we'll
admit we're wrong wrong all the
time
we're still opening doors were
opening doors were opening doors
and that these fields of
knowledge are coming together in
ways that are beautiful